## Automated ELK Stack DeploymentThe files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.README/Images/ELK.png)These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the /etc/ansible/  file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat./etc/ansible/install-elk-playbook.ymlThis document contains the following details:- Description of the Topology- Access Policies- ELK Configuration  - Beats in Use  - Machines Being Monitored- How to Use the Ansible Build### Description of the TopologyThe main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly efficient, in addition to restricting traffic to the network.- Load balancers protect the system from DDoS attacks by shifting attack traffic. Load Balancing contributes to the Availability aspect of security in regards to the CIA TriadIntegrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the logs and system traffic.What does Filebeat watch for?- Filebeat watches for any information in the file system which has been changed and when it has.-Filebeat watches for log files/locations and collects log eventsWhat does Metricbeat record?-Metricbeat takes the metrics and statistics that collects and ships them to the output you specify.-Metricbeat records metric and statistical data from the operating system and from services running on the server.The configuration details of each machine may be found below.|| Name    | Function | IP Address    | Operating System     ||---------|----------|---------------|----------------------|| Jumpbox | Gateway  | 13.68.194.175 | Linux(ubuntu 18.04)  || Web-1   | Server   | 10.0.0.8      | Linux(ubuntu 18.04)  || Web-2   | Server   | 10.0.0.9      | Linux(ubuntu 18.04)  || Elk-VM  | Server   | 10.1.0.4      | Linux (ubuntu 18.04) |### Access PoliciesThe machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. Only the JumpBox machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:- Public IP 96.241.174.207Machines within the network can only be accessed by SSH.- Which machine did you allow to access your ELK VM? JumpBoxProvisioner-VM.-What was its public IP address? 13.68.194.175A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.| Name    | Publicly Accessible | Allowed IP Addresses ||---------|---------------------|---------------------|| Jumpbox | NO                  | 10.0.0.4            || Web-1   | NO                  | 10.0.0.8            || Web-2   | NO                  | 10.0.0.9            || Elk-VM  | No                  | 10.1.0.4            |### Elk ConfigurationAnsible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...What is the main advantage of automating configuration with Ansible?-This allows you to deploy to multiple servers using a single playbookThe playbook implements the following tasks:Install docker.ioInstall Python-pipInstall docker containerLaunch docker container: elkCommand: sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.README/Images/docker_ps_output.png### Target Machines & BeatsThis ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:- Web- 1 (10.0.0.8)- Web-2 (10.0.0.9)We have installed the following Beats on these machines:- Filebeat- MetricbeatThese Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:-  Filebeat monitors log files or locations you specify, collects log events, and forwards them either to Elasticsearch or Logstash for indexing.- Metricbeat collects metrics from the operating system and from services running on the server.### Using the PlaybookIn order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:-Copy the playbook file to /etc/ansible.-Update the configuration file to include the webservers and ElkVM.-Run the playbook, and navigate to ElkVM to check that the installation worked as expected._Run the playbook, and SSH into the Elk vm, -Run docker ps to check that the installation worked as expected. Playbook: elkplaybook.yml Location: /etc/ansible/elkplaybook.yml Navigate to http://[your.ELK-VM.External.IP]:5601/app/kibana to confirm ELK and kibana are running. You may need to try from multiple web browsers Click 'Explore On Your Own' and you should see the following:README/Images/Kibana_mainThe commands needed to run the Ansible configuration for the Elk-Server are:- ssh mayag@JumpBox(Public IP)- sudo docker container list -a (locate your ansible container)- sudo docker start container (name of the container)- sudo docker attach container (name of the container)cd /etc/ansible/ - ansible-elkplaybook.yml (configures Elk-Server and starts the Elk container on the Elk-Server) cd /etc/ansible/roles/ - ansible-playbook filebeat-playbook.yml (installs Filebeat and Metricbeat) - open a new web browser (http://[your.ELK-VM.External.IP]:5601/app/kibana) This will bring up the Kibana Web Portal - check the Module status for file beat and metric beat to see their data receiving.** You will need to ensure all files are properly placed before running the ansible-playbooks.